# POTA BOT

A Parks on the air Discord spot bot. Use it to post spots from the main
POTA site and/or the Reverse Beacon Network into your Discord server.


## Docker Setup

This bot can be run from a docker image built and stored on docker hub at 
[krinkl3/spotbot](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/krinkl3/spotbot/general)

To run on low power ARM devices pull `krinkl3/spotbot:latest` or `krinkl3/spotbot:<version>`

For other architectures pull `krinkl3/spotbot:<version>-amd64` or `krinkl3/spotbot:latest-amd64`.

See the example docker-compose file below for a good starting point.

### Config Files

There are two config files are used by the bot. The docker-compose example below uses
two volume binds to expose them when you run the container. If you make changes 
to the files while the bot is running, you do **_not_** have to restart the bot.

`callsigns.txt` is the main configuration file. It should contain a newline 
separated list of callsigns.

`schedule.json` is a secondary configuration file with a specific format. See the
example given in the source and modify to your needs. 
Note the times are in UTC so adjust days of week according to the day of week at UTC zone. 

The days of week value is Python numbered as follows:
* 0 == Monday 
* 1 == Tuesday
* 2 == Wednesday
* 3 == Thursday
* 4 == Friday
* 5 == Saturday
* 6 == Sunday

> ⚠ Be aware of the fact that times are in UTC and the day of week value may need 
> to be on the _next_ UTC day depending on when the message needs to be sent.


An example schedule is provided in `example-schedule.json`

<span style="vertical-align:super;font-size:0.8rem">👉 This feature is in development. So far it's working to send single messages on given day of the week at a given time.</span>


### Example docker-compose

This specific example runs on Ubuntu. Replace all the place holders with your
pertinent data. And place your schedule.json and callsigns.txt files in the same directory as your docker-compose.yml.

```docker
version: "3"
services:
  myradicalbot:
    image: krinkl3/spotbot:1.1-amd64
    volumes:
      - type: bind
        source: ./callsigns.txt
        target: /app/callsigns.txt
      - type: bind
        source: ./schedule.json
        target: /app/schedule.json
    environment:
      TZ: America/New_York
      BOT_TOKEN: "bot token here" # the generated discord bot token
      GUILD_ID: "server id here"  # the snowflake id of your guild
      CHANNEL_ID: "channel id here"  # channel id to post in
      CALLSIGN_MGR_ROLE_ID: "role id here"  # id of role to add/remove callsigns
      PING_ROLE_ID: "role id here"  # id of role to ping in spot embeds
      DISABLE_RBN: '0'
    restart: unless-stopped
```

Then run: 

```bash
$ docker compose up -d
```

## Environment variables

The bot needs the following Environment variables set, (you will most likely
set them in your `docker-compose.yml`):

* `BOT_TOKEN` - The token generated by Discord when creating a bot
* `GUILD_ID` - The server's ID of where to bot needs to reside
* `CHANNEL_ID` - The channel ID where the bot will send spots
* `CALLSIGN_MGR_ROLE_ID` - The role ID for users to add/remove spots to tracking list
* `PING_ROLE_ID` - The role ID that will be pinged in spots
* `DISABLE_RBN`: '0' either a '1' or '0'. 1 will turn off querying of RBN spots.

> The id's should be integer values and are obtained through your discord client
> except for BOT_TOKEN which is generated via Discord's bot creation webpage. They 
> are still enclosed in quotes in the docker compose file.


### Building a local docker image
You can always build the docker images from source. Build the image like so:

```bash
$ docker build -t my_rad_bot . 
```

Use any name for the `-t` argument just remember to use it when deploying the 
docker image to a container.

